# 2018 09 25 BCCN Workshop Practical approaches to research data management and reproducibility

[C] Journal rescience

[ToDo] shall we collect the presentations and provide them via gin, if the presenters are ok with it? or at least the info pages with respect to all talk mentioned resources?

## The challenges of integrating neuroscientific data into a unified database (Lyuba Zehl)

[C] dicom data format, seg recordings

[todo] ask lyuba if she has schemas to start reorganizing existing data structures

[todo] steal first parts of lyubas presentation

[todo] terms from neuroML, see if they can be integrated into odML

[todo] how to get overview workflow picture from michael denker

[ToDo] eeg load proprietory formats and hand over to various existing toolboxes for analyzing eeg data.

[todo] Advertise ANDA at the RTG workshop?

[todo] checklist for conference/workshops
- extension cord
- lan cable
- laser pointer

## NIX tools and odML metadata design for human EEG in dynamic environments (Hiroaki Wagatsuma)

[C] J-Node dynamic brain platform

## Organizing activity data using the Neural Activity Resource (Elodie Legouée)

[C] HBP NAR (neural activity resource) / NARCI (neural activity resource calcium imaging)

[ToDo] neo visualizer ... check if this might be interesting for any online viewing of online nix/ephys data that can be loaded into neo?

nar-browser-app.brainsimulation.eu/app

[C] SHACL ... shapes constraint language

[?] schema for eeg?


## Designing data analysis workflows using Elephant and Neo (Julia Sprenger)

[ToDo] can options of nixview be exported to functions for jupyter notebook?
[ToDo] make gin synonyms e.g. status or dir for ls

knowledge
neo ... data model and interface for ephys data
elephant ... ephys analysis toolkit based on neo


## Rigour and Reproducibility in Computational Neuroscience: Testing the Data-Driven Model with NeuroML and NeuronUnit (Sharon Crook)

[ToDo] check whether the main neuroML structure can be ported as an odML template.
[ToDo] Add to https://github.com/NeuralEnsemble/NeuroinformaticsTutorial


## Reproducible data analysis with Snakemake (Johannes Köster)

koesterlab.github.io

[C] common workflow language
[ToDo] make conda package for nix / nixview
[ToDo] check if snakemake containers can be nicely integrated into gin?

github.com/snakemake-workflows/docs


# 2018 09 26 BCCN Workshop (cont.)

## Semantics for EEG Research: Metadata Description and EEGBase (Roman Moucek)

## Go FAIR with DataLad (Michael Hanke)

## GIN - the G-Node INfrastructure services: Applying and extending established tools towards safe, efficient, reproducible and seamless data management (Christian Garbers)


# points for RTG workshop

- [C] bids format v whatever schema lyuba because it is most intuitive
- use lyuba metadata image to point out, that complex experiments are described by much more than jyst the resulting data file to be understood
- when bundled into one file, information cannot get lost e.g. in eeg data, info is bundled in various files.

- we cannot tell you what your PI wants or what you feel comfortable with, but we can tell you about the options in data management you have.


- introduce a couple of tools like docker, conda and snakemake and point out the neuroinformaticstutorial site
