# Tu, 19.03.2019, NWG Travel (8h)

travel to venue, setup booth

# We, 20.03.2019 08:00 - 20:00 (12h ... +4h)

Poster print
NWG demo preparations
Booth setup
Lyuba comic setup on gin
GCA-Web review



- [ToDiscuss] Chat with Claudia Duppe re Student Data workshop in Munich.
- [ToDiscuss] Juelich and Pilsen groups both work on visual display tools for 
              eeg/ephys neo data.
- Loop guy discussion about metadata (does video capture)


[ToCheck] nfdi meeting

[]
idea for lyubas comic repo
- have a main page on readme
- organise images in numbered folders
- add md files in its own folder that contain link to image, prev and next.

or have a main readme set up and link to the wiki


What we still need for the booth
- A4 prop-up
- G-Node table banner
- table beamer insted of screen


# Th, 21.03.2019 08:00 - 19:00 (11h ... +7h)

- visit loop booth!
- ask thomas about overhead


First Poster session:
- Australian labhead ... interested in NIX, working with Spike2 and Mouse sheet metadata
- Netherlander that was already in Berlin
- Guy from Juelich lab ... told him about WinGIN for Marseille
- French labhead interested in NIX and GIN
- 2 German datascientists that were interested in NIX/GIN and how it compares to DataJoint, went to live demo
- Yarik Brauer (?), is in Munich, has Metadata database but would also have use for odML and would like to drop by at the office for a chat.
- english PhD that has his own workflow with raw files and excel setup and was interested in NIX.
- Colleage of Ajay


Second poster session:
- PostDoc ... interested in everything
- PhD ... behavior fMRI / BIDS ... asked about GIN (OFR/OSR?) integration
- PhD
- PhD ... image analysis
- PostDoc
- PhD ... RNASeq ... interested in GIN
- PhD Mathias Klump ... odML and GIN

Talked to Claudia Duppe again. The BCOS would be interested in helping us with:
- Creating a G-Node Banner for the Booth
- Update our logos
- Provide us with Project overview handouts if we tell them in time
- Provide us with prop ups and advertisment materials as well.
- Compile an immediate list of what we would like from BCOS and send it to them
- send the logos in any case so that they may have them if they need them
  ... ideally as eps, but pdf works as well; svg not so much
- also send them some workflows from our posters


# Fr, 22.03.2019 08:00 - 19:00 (11h ... +10h)

- booth preparations
- quiz preparations
- poster presentations
- presentations at the booth
- gin-cli PR review
- chat with Julia Sprenger re gin-cli push to all remotes issue
- first part booth takedown

First Poster session
- Postdoc Ralph Tuff, Mainz ... very interested in odML and using GIN
 for both new projects in Mainz as for his old datasets in Heidelberg (?)
- Labhad from Brazil ... interested in using GIN
- PhD Cologne ... interested in NIX, saw talk by Jan about the NIX format
- Postdoc ... DataScience&Management, mainly tiff and derivatives, has his own 
              metadata, hdf format.
- Labhead Poland, Pharmacology, interested in GIN
- DataCoordinator, Hospital Switzerland, interested in GIN


# Sa, 23.03.2019 08:00 - 21:00 (+13h ... +23h)

- GCA-Web: Check auto register via address string for Jan
- create a NIX file from C. elegans data
- hacking on nix example folder on gin


# general


Remember:

G-Node:
The Bernstein facility for Data Manangement Technology!


[C] DataJoint - people were asking how our stuff compares and what would be
    our selling features in comparison.

- it was very good to have at least a simplified version of the data model
  people that wanted to know more where actually interested to see a bit
  of the internals.

NWG specific conference notes:
All vendors stop on Fr, 14:00, and leave...
we usually don't have a table on saturday...


[Good to know] On tabrotate:

Use revolver tab plugin in chromium


As heading across the address bar:

Modern Research Data Management for Neuroscience

- https://web.gin.g-node.org/
- https://doid.gin.g-node.org/
- http://bendalab.github.io/NixView/
- https://web.gin.g-node.org/msonntag/demo/src/master/elegans_oxygen.odml (odml file in gin)
- poster



[todo] 
- get a g-node banner for hiding the feet at conferences
- do a Prezi presentation for future conferences! prezi.com
- get cardboard boxes as prop-ups

- we can ask BCOS to provide us with banner and prop ups






DataJoint:
- Data pipeline and hosting solution to share common data pipelines
- Python and Matlab
- Backend uses relational DB, sets up tables for a project (the user has to set up their own table structure)
- Provides user with a specific data definition language and provides a query language and vizualisation (of the pipeline).
- Data stored in Janelia (USofA)

Comparison:
- in both the user has to set up their own schema / use case.
- in datajoint it is unclear how large sets of raw data will behave.
- datajoint is the right use case if you want a wrapper around pytables and some convenience functions.
- it is unclear how and where actual data is stored.


