# 2018 09 25 BCCN Workshop Practical approaches to research data management and reproducibility

[C] Journal rescience

[ToDo] shall we collect the presentations and provide them via gin, if the presenters are ok with it? or at least the info pages with respect to all talk mentioned resources?

[todo] how to get overview workflow picture from michael denker

## The challenges of integrating neuroscientific data into a unified database (Lyuba Zehl)

[C] dicom data format, seg recordings

[todo] ask lyuba if she has schemas to start reorganizing existing data structures

[todo] steal first parts of lyubas presentation

[todo] terms from neuroML, see if they can be integrated into odML

[ToDo] eeg load proprietory formats and hand over to various existing toolboxes for analyzing eeg data.

[todo] Advertise ANDA at the RTG workshop?

[todo] checklist for conference/workshops
- extension cord
- lan cable
- laser pointer

## NIX tools and odML metadata design for human EEG in dynamic environments (Hiroaki Wagatsuma)

[C] J-Node dynamic brain platform

## Organizing activity data using the Neural Activity Resource (Elodie Legouée)

[C] HBP NAR (neural activity resource) / NARCI (neural activity resource calcium imaging)

[ToDo] neo visualizer ... check if this might be interesting for any online viewing of online nix/ephys data that can be loaded into neo?

nar-browser-app.brainsimulation.eu/app

[C] SHACL ... shapes constraint language

[?] schema for eeg?


## Designing data analysis workflows using Elephant and Neo (Julia Sprenger)

[ToDo] can options of nixview be exported to functions for jupyter notebook?
[ToDo] make gin synonyms e.g. status or dir for ls

knowledge
neo ... data model and interface for ephys data
elephant ... ephys analysis toolkit based on neo


## Rigour and Reproducibility in Computational Neuroscience: Testing the Data-Driven Model with NeuroML and NeuronUnit (Sharon Crook)

[ToDo] check whether the main neuroML structure can be ported as an odML template.
[ToDo] Add to https://github.com/NeuralEnsemble/NeuroinformaticsTutorial


## Reproducible data analysis with Snakemake (Johannes Köster)

koesterlab.github.io

[C] common workflow language
[ToDo] make conda package for nix / nixview
[ToDo] check if snakemake containers can be nicely integrated into gin?

github.com/snakemake-workflows/docs


# 2018 09 26 BCCN Workshop (cont.)

## Semantics for EEG Research: Metadata Description and EEGBase (Roman Moucek)

[ToDo] can this be turned into a template?
   http://home.zcu.cz/%7Eprokop/MetadataModel/Datovy%20model.xlsx


## Go FAIR with DataLad (Michael Hanke)

[ToDo] get Chrisitan to get Achilleas and Michael to starttalking about the 
current state of datalad <-> gin

   https://www.datalad.org

[ToDo] when we have issues with git-annex get in touch with m hanke since they already 
have a lot of experience as well and we can stay connected as well.

[C] datalad extensions

## GIN - the G-Node INfrastructure services: Applying and extending established tools towards safe, efficient, reproducible and seamless data management (Christian Garbers)

[ToDo] make odml-ui available for windows!
[ToDo] implement proper templates for odml and odml-ui

# points for RTG workshop

- [C] bids format v whatever schema lyuba because it is most intuitive
- use lyuba metadata image to point out, that complex experiments are described by much more than jyst the resulting data file to be understood
- when bundled into one file, information cannot get lost e.g. in eeg data, info is bundled in various files.

- we cannot tell you what your PI wants or what you feel comfortable with, but we can tell you about the options in data management you have.


- introduce a couple of tools like docker, conda and snakemake and point out the neuroinformaticstutorial site
- add datalad?


https://github.com/NeuralEnsemble/NeuroinformaticsTutorial
https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
https://github.com/INCF/eeg-database/wiki/(Meta)Data-model


08:30 - 20:00 (11h30)



# 2018 09 27, BCCN conference

[ToDo]
- BCOS: script for booklet deployment and proper description
- gin comic on gin starting page as jumbotron
- hiwi job new g-node homepage
- add update gin news to todo list.
- do plotting library for nixio for jupyter notebooks -> port from nixview
- cancel bahncard
- get ticket wuerzburg

- gin flask for conferences
- g-node panini sticker album
